[MUSIC]
In this video, we are going to make our
projectiles a little bit prettier and
add a spin to our bomb.
And we're gonna fix this problem.
Let me show you what the problem is.
Shoot, shoot, shoot, shoot,
shoot with the player.
If I pause, come zinging in, you can see
that the projectile is being instantiated
right from the middle of the player.
So there are some things we can do here.
One is that we can change the spawn point.
We have the tip of the nose of the player.
That's gonna be a similar problem with
the enemies when they're shooting, But
things are gonna be
instantiated right on top.
But there's a really quick and easy way
that we can resolve this by changing
the rendering layer, so
the order in which we see things.
At the moment we're seeing
the projectile on top of the player and
then the player on top of the background,
but
we can change the order that things
are rendered in or shown to the player in.
So what we'll do is find our player laser.
And then if you come over
to the sprite renderer,
you'll see there's a sorting layer.
If you click on sorting layer, there's
default and then add sortling layer.
So we're gonna add ourselves another
sorting layer, click on that button.
Click on the plus button and then
change the layout to Projectiles, okay.
And you know what,
I don't remember which one comes first.
I think whatever is first in
our list is rendered first,
and therefore it is
underneath the other things.
But we'll go and assign this, so
find the laser prefab, or sorry,
the Player Laser prefab again.
And then under Sorting Layer,
we need to change this to Projectiles.
Let's see if that has changed it so
that these projectiles are now
underneath the player.
So, we'll shoot, shoot, shoot, shoot.
Click on Pause.
I'm zooming in.
Just scroll a frame at a time
by clicking the button, great.
Now it's underneath there.
And what we can do now is go to
our other projectiles in our game.
Let's see, we've got the enemy bomb.
Do the same thing, sorting layer,
assign those projectiles and
then the enemy laser, the sorting layer,
define that as projectiles.
So now all of our projectiles should be
seen underneath the things are spawning
them or instantiating them.
And you're not gonna get that weird,
the lasers sitting over the top
of an enemy or a player.
That's all looking pretty good.
And when these other enemies come out,
they are shooting underneath
themselves as well.
Okay, cool, happy with that.
That's one bit of what
we're doing in this video.
The next bit we're gonna is add
a little bit of spin to our bombs.
So you can see how their coming down,
their very straight,
it's a little bit boring.
We want some variation rather than
them kind of spinning around and
be looking like little
spinning mind type things.
The way we're gonna do that is
find the projectile enemy bomb,
and then I will scroll on down.
I'll add component which I will
call a spinner, spin or spinner.
Okay, spinner.
Hit Enter > Create and add,
and then let's, you know what?
First, I'm going to click on assets and
then just drag my script
over into my Scripts folder.
Okay, and
then find spinner where I use spinner.
There we go, spinner open that up.
It's a really, really simple script.
If you know how to do this already,
then pause the video and jump in.
Let me give you a hint, and that is we're
gonna delete just our start method.
We need the update.
My hint here is we're going
to use transform.rotate.
So if that's enough of a hint for
you, pause the video and
implement transform.rotate so
that our bombs spin around.
Okay, and for the rest of us, I'm going
to, first of all, serialize a field,
so we can say how fast it rotates.
So it needs to be a float.
This will be speedOfSpin, and
we'll initialize that at say 1f.
And now an update,
we're gonna type transform.rotate.
We're gonna use the rotation and
parentheses.
Now what we're gonna do in here is the
rotation on the x, the rotation on the y,
and the rotation on the z.
If we're not sure what we should rotate,
let's just go in, click on our player.
And then we look to see,
I'm pretty sure it's on the z.
So if I change the z rotation, yep,
that's the sort of rotation we want.
Any other rotation won't
make any sense in a 2D game.
So I'm gonna be rotating on z.
So 0, throw in the x, space, zero, comma
space at zero, and the x zero on the y.
And then we're gonna say
speed of spin times,
what do we times it by to have
it frame rate independent?
Time.deltaTime, and
then semicolon at the end.
That's a really simple way
of saying make it spin.
Okay, come back in,
click on our Enemy Bomb.
For some reason it's gone back to yellow.
Maybe I made changes not on the prefab.
We'll make it red.
There we go.
It's on the prefab.
Scroll down, you know what?
The speed of the spin,
I think 1 is not gonna be enough.
That's just gonna be 1 degree per second,
I believe.
Let's make this 360 to test my
assumption that it's saying how quickly.
So what happens over one second,
we wanna do 360 degree rotation.
Let's test to see that.
If our bullets rotate,
take about a second.
So out they come, one, yeah, that looks
like it's roughly a second to do a spin.
So if you like that amount of spin,
that's cool.
I think it looks a lot more dynamic
than just being flat and straight.
I like that they're now coming
out nice and red as well.
And if we were to put this up to say,
all right, 2,000,
just for fun to see what happens.
Click on Play, and then as they come
flying out, they're going to be [SOUND]
spinning really fast and
get a weird kind of jiggity effect.
Probably looks a little bit odd on the
video with my frame right of my recording
software but I mean that's kind
of a neat effect of itself.
It kinda gives it some animation and
some motion.
I'm gonna put this back maybe just 720 so
that we have a little bit of spin,
not too much but
enough to make it dynamic.
So there we go.
We've implemented some projectile
improvements to our game,
some movements and motions, some spinning.
You can add some randomness to this, so
they don't all spin exactly
the same way if you wanted.
You know how to do random.range.
So lots of cool, great,
awesome things you can do in your game.
As always, I look forward to
seeing what you're coming up with,
so please do continue sharing.
And I'll see you in the next lecture.